#summary Roadmap of the imogene solution
#labels Modeling,Generation,DataCollection

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

<table cellspacing="0" border="2px">
	<tr>
		<td></td>
		<td align="center"><b>Pre-deployment</b></td>
		<td colspan="2" align="center"><b>Operational Use</b></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><b>Actors</b></td>
		<td align="center"><b>System administrator/Users</b></td>
		<td align="center"><b>Field users</b></td>
		<td align="center"><b>Managers / Decision Makers</b></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><b>Software</b></td>
		<td>
		<ul>
			<li>Imogene platform for Information System development (Desktop
			application)</li>
		</ul>
		</td>
		<td>
		<ul>
			<li>Generated application for Android terminals</li>
		</ul>
		</td>
		<td>
		<ul>
			<li>Generated Web application</li>
		</ul>
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><b>Hardware</b></td>
		<td>
		<ul>
			<li>A PC or a laptop for the Information System modelling and
			generation.</li>
			<li>A server connected to the Internet for the application
			deployment</li>
		</ul>
		</td>
		<td>
		<ul>
			<li>An Android terminal</li>
		</ul>
		</td>
		<td>
		<ul>
			<li>A PC or a laptop connected to the Internet for the web
			application</li>
		</ul>
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><b>Communication means</b></td>
		<td>
		<ul>
			<li>Offline for the modelling and generation</li>
			<li>Online for the application deployment</li>
		</ul>
		</td>
		<td>
		<ul>
			<li>Offline for the data collection</li>
			<li>Online for the data synchronization</li>
		</ul>
		</td>
		<td>
		<ul>
			<li>Online for the data visualisation and edition via the web
			application</li>
		</ul>
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><b>Scenario</b></td>
		<td>
		<ul>
			<li><b>Specifications</b>: specifications of the forms for data
			collection and of the user privileges to be managed.</li>
			<li><b>Information System modelling</b>: Using Imogene platform for
			Information System development, graphical modelling of the
			Information System (data collection forms, data access privileges,
			data validation, etc.</li>
			<li><b>Application generation</b>: From the defined model, automatic
			generation of the Information System applications.</li>
			<li><b>Application deployment</b>: The generated applications are
			deployed. The web application, data synchronisation application, user
			administration application and web services on a Web Server. The
			Android application is published on an update site. The field users
			download the Android application from their Android terminal for
			installation.</li>
		</ul>
		</td>
		<td>
		<ul>
			<li><b>Data collection</b>:</li>
			<li>The Field user has access to the application on his Android
			terminal in mobility situation.</li>
			<li>He can collect the requested data through ergonomic forms.</li>
			<li>The application works in connected or disconnected mode.</li>
			<li>Data access privileges are managed so that the user can only
			access the data that he is allowed to access.</li>
			<li><b>Data transmission and reception</b>:</li>
			<li>Data are automatically sent to the server at a specific
			frequency or on the action of the user when the terminal is connected
			to a communication network.</li>
			<li>Synchronization processes are bi-directional so that the
			user can transmit data but also receive and update data coming from
			other remote users.</li>
			<li>The user can filter the data so that he only gets the data
			that he needs from the server.</li>
		</ul>
		</td>
		<td>
		<ul>
			<li><b>Data collection and visualization</b>:</li>
			<li>The actor has access to the application from any place
			connected to the Internet at any time on a PC or laptop.</li>
			<li>He can enter of visualize data through ergonomic forms.</li>
			<li>Data access privileges are managed so that the user can only
			access the data that he is allowed to access.</li>
		</ul>
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><b>Innovation brought by using Imogene</b></td>
		<td>
		<ul>
			<li>Graphical modelling of the Information System (sophisticated
			forms, sophisticated data access management)</li>
			<li>Automatic generation of the information System applications
			(web, mobile, synchronization, administration, web services)</li>
			<li>Easy deployment of the applications</li>
		</ul>
		</td>
		<td>
		<ul>
			<li>Electronic data collection in mobility situation</li>
			<li>Data collection through sophisticated forms (sub forms,
			conditional field access, hierarchical lists, advanced data
			validation)</li>
			<li>Photo, Video, Sound, GPS coordinates, Barcode acquisition</li>
			<li>Remote installation and update of the application</li>
			<li>Bi-directional data synchronization</li>
			<li>Advanced user privileges management</li>
			<li>Internationalized user interface</li>
		</ul>
		</td>
		<td>
		<ul>
			<li>Data visualization and edition through sophisticated forms
			(sub forms, conditional field access, hierarchical lists, advanced
			data validation)</li>
			<li>Advanced user privileges management</li>
			<li>Internationalized user interface</li>
		</ul>
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>